Add slurm plugin docs (#3944)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/slurm-hpc-ux.mdx

---
title: SPANK plugin user guide
description: User guide for the quantum resource management SPANK plugin
---
{/* cspell:ignore QRMI, SBATCH, srun, Pasqal, slurmd, Doxyfile, Gres */}

# SPANK plugin user guide

> Slurm QPU resource definitions determine what physical resources can be used by Slurm jobs in high-performance compute (HPC) environments. User source code should be agnostic to specific backend instances and even backend types as far as possible. This keeps source code portable while the QPU selection criteria are part of the resource definition (which is considered configuration as opposed to source code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slurm QPU resource definitions determine what physical resources can be used by Slurm jobs in high-performance compute (HPC) environments. User source code should be agnostic to specific backend instances, and even backend types whenever possible. This keeps source code portable while the QPU selection criteria are part of the resource definition (which is considered configuration rather than source code).
```

> ## Configuring QPU resources in job creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure QPU resources in job creation
```

<Admonition type="caution">
Note that this plugin is under active development and the exact syntax is subject to change.
</Admonition>

### Administrator scope

> HPC administrators configure the SPANK plugin, i.e. what physical resources can be provided to Slurm jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HPC administrators configure the SPANK plugin to specify what physical resources can be provided to Slurm jobs.
```

This configuration contains all the information needed to have Slurm jobs access the physical resources, such as endpoints, and access credentials.

You can read over the [`qrmi_config.json.example`](https://github.com/qiskit-community/spank-plugins/blob/main/plugins/spank_qrmi/qrmi_config.json.example) for a comprehensive example configuration.

In `slurm.conf`, qpu resources can be assigned to some or all nodes for usage:
```
...
GresTypes=qpu,name
NodeName=node[1-5000] Gres=qpu,name:ibm_fez
...
```

### User scope

> HPC users submit jobs using QPU resources that are tied to Slurm QPU resources. The name attribute references what the HPC administrator has defined. Mid-term, backend selection can be based on criteria other than a predefined name which refers to a specific backend (e.g. by capacity and error rate qualifiers which help downselect between the defined set of backends).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HPC users submit jobs using QPU resources that are tied to Slurm QPU resources. The name attribute references what the HPC administrator has defined. Mid-term, backend selection can be based on criteria other than a predefined name referring to a specific backend (for example, by capacity and error rate qualifiers, to help down-select among the defined set of backends).
```

There might be additional environment variables required, depending on the backend type.

> `SBATCH` parameters will point to one or more QPU resource assigned to the application as generic resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SBATCH` parameters will point to one or more QPU resources assigned to the application as generic resources.
```

```shell
#SBATCH --time=100
#SBATCH --output=<LOGS_PATH>
#SBATCH --gres=qpu:1
#SBATCH --qpu=ibm_fez
#SBATCH --... # other options

srun ...
```

To use more QPU resources, add more QPUs to the `--qpu` parameter:

```shell
#SBATCH --time=100
#SBATCH --output=<LOGS_PATH>
#SBATCH --gres=qpu:3
#SBATCH --qpu=my_local_qpu,ibm_fez,ibm_marrakesh
#SBATCH --... # other options

srun ...
```

### HPC application scope

HPC applications use the Slurm QPU resources assigned to the Slurm job.

Environment variables provide more details for use by the application; for example, `SLURM_JOB_QPU_RESOURCES` lists the quantum resource names (comma-separated if several are provided).
These variables will be used by QRMI. (See the README files in the various QRMI directories ([IBM](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/blob/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/ibm/README.md), [pasqal](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/blob/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/pasqal/README.md)) for more details.)

```python
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
# using an IBM QRMI flavor:
from qrmi.primitives import QRMIService

> from qrmi.primitives.ibm import SamplerV2, get_target

Reviewer 2: `get_target `should be changed to `get_backend`.

(Our git repo will be also changed soon)

# define circuit

circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
circuit.h(0)
circuit.cx(0, 1)
circuit.measure_all()

# instantiate QRMI service and get quantum resource (we'll take the first one should there be serveral of them)
# inject credentials needed for accessing the service at this point
load_dotenv()
service = QRMIService()

resources = service.resources()
qrmi = resources[0]

# Generate transpiler target from backend configuration & properties and transpile

> target = get_target(qrmi)

Reviewer 2: This line should be changed to:
`backend = get_backend(qrmi)`

Our repo will also be updated soon.

pm = generate_preset_pass_manager(
    optimization_level=1,

>     target=target,

Reviewer 2: `target=target,`
should be changed to:
`backend=backend,`

(Our repo will also be updated soon.)

)

isa_circuit = pm.run(circuit)

# run the circuit
options = {}
sampler = SamplerV2(qrmi, options=options)

job = sampler.run([(isa_circuit, isa_observable, param_values)])
print(f">>> Job ID: {job.job_id()}")

result = job.result()

> print(f">>> {result}")

Reviewer 2: This line should be changed to:

```
if job.done():
    pub_result = result[0]
    print(f"Counts for the 'meas' output register: {pub_result.data.meas.get_counts()}")
elif job.cancelled():
    print("Cancelled")
elif job.errored():
    print(qrmi.task_logs(job.job_id()))
```

(Our git repo will be updated soon)

```

See the [examples directory](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/tree/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/) for example files.

### Backend specifics
#### IBM Direct Access API
##### Administrator scope

> Configuration of Direct Access API backends (HPC admin scope) includes endpoints and credentials to the Direct Access endpoint, authentication services as well as the S3 endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of Direct Access API backends (HPC admin scope) includes endpoints and credentials to the Direct Access endpoint and authentication services as well as to the S3 endpoint.
```

Specifically, this includes:

* IBM Cloud API key for creating bearer tokens

> * endpoint of Direct Access API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* IBM Cloud&reg; API key for creating bearer tokens
* Endpoint of the Direct Access API
```

* S3 bucket and access details

Access credentials should not be visible to HPC users or other non-privileged users on the system.

> Therefore, sensitive data can be put in separate files which can be access protected accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, sensitive data can be put in separate files, which can be access-protected accordingly.
```

Note that Slurm has got full access to the backend.
This has several implications:

* the Slurm plugin is responsible for multi-tenancy (ensuring that users don't see results of other users' jobs)
* vetting of users (who is allowed to access the QPU) and ensuring according access is up to the HPC cluster side
* the capacity and priority of the QPU usage is solely managed through Slurm; there is not other scheduling of users involved outside of Slurm

##### User scope
Execution lanes are not exposed to the HPC administrator or user directly.

> Instead, mid term, there can be two different modes that HPC users can specify:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, mid-term, there can be two different modes that HPC users can specify:
```
I'm not sure what mid-term refers to here (and once previously in this file) - does it mean "currently, but will probably change, because it's under development"?

* `exclusive=true` specifies that no other jobs can use the resource at the same time. An exclusive mode job gets all execution lanes and can not run at the same time as a non-exclusive job

> * `exclusive=false` allows other jobs to run in parallel. In that case, there can be as many jobs as there are execution lanes at the same time, and the job essentially only gets one lane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `exclusive=true` specifies that no other jobs can use the resource at the same time. An exclusive mode job gets all execution lanes and cannot run at the same time as a non-exclusive job
* `exclusive=false` allows other jobs to run in parallel. In this case, there can be as many jobs as there are execution lanes, all running at the same time, and the job is assigned one lane
```

#### Qiskit Runtime Service
##### User scope

It is expected, that users specify additional access details in environment variables.
Specifically, this includes

* Qiskit Runtime service instance (CRN, Cloud Resource Name)
* Endpoint for Qiskit Runtime (unless auto-detected from the CRN)
* API key which has access to the CRN
* S3 instance, bucket and access token/credentials for data transfers

This determines under which user and service instance the Qiskit Runtime service is used

> Accordingly, IBM Quantum Platform's scheduling considers the user's and service instance's capabilities for scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is expected that users specify additional access details in environment variables.
Specifically, this includes the following:

* Qiskit Runtime service instance (CRN, Cloud Resource Name)
* Endpoint for Qiskit Runtime (unless auto-detected from the CRN)
* API key, which has access to the CRN
* S3 instance, bucket, and access token/credentials for data transfers

These details determine under which user and service instance the Qiskit Runtime service is used.
Accordingly, IBM Quantum&reg; Platform scheduling considers the user's and service instance's capabilities for scheduling.
```

---
title: SPANK plugin user guide
description: User guide for the quantum resource management SPANK plugin
---
{/* cspell:ignore QRMI, SBATCH, srun, Pasqal, slurmd, Doxyfile, Gres */}

# SPANK plugin user guide

> Slurm QPU resource definitions determine what physical resources can be used by Slurm jobs in high-performance compute (HPC) environments. User source code should be agnostic to specific backend instances, and even backend types whenever possible. This keeps source code portable while the QPU selection criteria are part of the resource definition (which is considered configuration rather than source code).

Reviewer: Isn't SPANK an acronym? - if so, can we spell it out in the intro?

Author: Yes, it stands for _**Slurm Plug-in Architecture for Node and job (K)control**_  and is an acronym for a type of  interface (similar to "API"). IMO spelling it out would be a bit of a mouthful and I would argue that it wouldn't add much extra understanding that'd be helpful for the user.

These variables will be used by QRMI. (See the README files in the various QRMI directories ([IBM](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/blob/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/ibm/README.md), [pasqal](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/blob/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/pasqal/README.md)) for more details.)

```python
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
# using an IBM QRMI flavor:
from qrmi.primitives import QRMIService
from qrmi.primitives.ibm import SamplerV2, get_backend

# define circuit

circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
circuit.h(0)
circuit.cx(0, 1)
circuit.measure_all()

# instantiate QRMI service and get quantum resource (we'll take the first one should there be serveral of them)
# inject credentials needed for accessing the service at this point
load_dotenv()
service = QRMIService()

resources = service.resources()
qrmi = resources[0]

# Generate transpiler target from backend configuration & properties and transpile
backend = get_backend(qrmi)
pm = generate_preset_pass_manager(
    optimization_level=1,
    backend=backend,
)

isa_circuit = pm.run(circuit)

> # run the circuit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Run the circuit
```

options = {}
sampler = SamplerV2(qrmi, options=options)

job = sampler.run([(isa_circuit, isa_observable, param_values)])
print(f">>> Job ID: {job.job_id()}")

result = job.result()

if job.done():
    pub_result = result[0]
    print(f"Counts for the 'meas' output register: {pub_result.data.meas.get_counts()}")
elif job.cancelled():
    print("Cancelled")
elif job.errored():
    print(qrmi.task_logs(job.job_id()))
```

See the [examples directory](https://github.com/qiskit-community/qrmi/tree/main/examples/qiskit_primitives/) for example files.

### Backend specifics
#### IBM Direct Access API
##### Administrator scope

> Configuration of Direct Access API backends (HPC admin scope) includes endpoints and credentials to the Direct Access endpoint and authentication services as well as to the S3 endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration of Direct Access API backends (HPC admin scope) includes endpoints and credentials to the Direct Access endpoint and authentication services, as well as to the S3 endpoint.
```
